RC: Seamless endpoint migration - Dynamic endpoints/Endpoint redirection (#2751)
redis/docs: content/operate/rc/subscriptions/upgrade-essentials-pro.md

1. [Create a new database in Redis Cloud Pro](#create-rcp) with the right specifications to be able to migrate your database.

> 1. [Migrate the data in your Essentials database](#migrate-data) to your new Redis Cloud Pro database.

Reviewer: data migration is still optional.. even in Essentials to Pro migration

> 1. [Migrate the data in your Essentials database](#migrate-database) to your new Redis Cloud Pro database.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Migrate the data in your Essentials database](#migrate-data) to your new Redis Cloud Pro database.
```

> 1. [Migrate your endpoints](#migrate-endpoints) to your new Redis Cloud Pro database.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Redirect the endpoints](#redirect-database-endpoints) to your new Redis Cloud Pro database.
```

- In the [**Sizing tab**]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/create-database/create-pro-database-new#sizing-tab" >}}), create your databases with the following specifications:
    - Set the memory limit to comply with [Active-Passive memory requirements]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/migrate-databases#active-passive-memory-requirements" >}}) if you want to migrate your database using [Active-Passive]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/migrate-databases#sync-using-active-passive" >}}).
    - Select any advanced capabilities that your Essentials database offers. You can find a list of enabled advanced capabilities in the [Configuration tab]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/view-edit-database#configuration-details-tab" >}}) of your database.

>     - In **More options**, set the **Port** to **Manually assign**, and enter the port of your Essentials database. You must set the port number to match the port of your Essentials database if you want to migrate your database endpoints.

Author: ```suggestion
    - In **More options**, set the **Port** to **Manually assign**, and enter the port of your Essentials database. You must set the port number to match the port of your Essentials database if you want to migrate your database endpoints. You can find the port in the endpoint of your database on the **Configuration** tab of your database.
```

    {{<image filename="images/rc/migrate-data-status-synced.png" alt="When the data is migrated, the target database status displays `Synced`." width=100px >}}

>     Active-Passive sync lets you migrate data while apps and other connections are using the source database. Once the data is migrated, you should migrate active connections to the target database before you move on if you choose not to redirect your endpoints.

Reviewer: I don't undersatnd this question (so I assume most users won't either): specifically: "Once the data is migrated, you should migrate active connections to the target database before you move on"

    Active-Passive sync lets you migrate data while apps and other connections are using the source database. Once the data is migrated, you should migrate active connections to the target database before you move on.

### Redirect database endpoints

Redirecting your database endpoints after migrating your data lets you direct connections to your new database without any code changes.

{{< note >}}
See [Redirect dynamic endpoints]({{< relref "/operate/rc/databases/redirect-endpoints" >}}) for more information on the limitations and requirements for endpoint redirection.
{{< /note >}}

To redirect your database endpoints:

1. From the Redis Cloud console, select **Databases** from the menu and select the source database in the list.

1. In the **General** section of the **Configuration** tab, select **Redirect endpoints**.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/databases-configuration-redirect-endpoints.png" alt="Use the **Redirect endpoints** button to change the target database for the source database endpoints." >}}

1. Select the target Redis Cloud Pro database from the **Target database** list. You can type in the database's name to find it.

>     You can choose whether to map the original endpoint to the **Public** or the **Private** endpoint.

Reviewer: "If you choose a private endpoint, you must establish private connectivity to the target's database subscription before performing the redirection." Add a link to the relevant section in the docs. I see we don't have a single place that covers all connectivity methods, but they are all under the 'Security' section.

Reviewer: Essentials: you don't have private connectivity (PC), that true. This is an exception. If you choose a private endpoint in Pro, we verify you have a PC configured. if so, we allow. If you don't have PC and you try to redirect from essentials to private endpoint in Pro, we don't allow it. 
Pro: You're right - we block you if you don't have the same connectivity method. You might have, for example, 3 VPC peerings in the source and only 1 of them in the target - that's what we allow. You have to have at least one overlapping PC method in Pro->Pro redirections

Author: @NoamSternRedis - Do you have an answer to this question?

Reviewer: @cmilesb I don't see that we edited this section as well

    {{<image filename="images/rc/migrate-data-redirect-assign-acls.png" alt="Select **Assign the same ACLs to the target database** to assign the same roles to the target database." >}}

1. Select **I acknowledge this action will redirect my database endpoints** to confirm that you understand that this action will redirect your database endpoints. Then select **Redirect endpoints**.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/migrate-data-redirect-acknowledge.png" alt="The **Redirect endpoints** button redirects the source database endpoints to the target database." >}}

After you redirect your database endpoints, you can go to the **Configuration** tab of the target database to verify that the endpoints now point to the target database. 

You can revert endpoint migration within 24 hours to restore the original endpoints. Select **Revert** to revert endpoint migration.

{{<image filename="images/rc/migrate-data-redirect-revert.png" alt="The **Revert** button reverts endpoint migration." >}}

> After the 24-hour window, you can no longer revert to the original endpoints.

Author: ```suggestion
After the 24-hour window, you can no longer revert to the endpoint to the original database.
```
